>> Will Sentance: And now,
we must introduce, cuz what runs next?
The whole time in node, before any
line of code, any function gets run,
node is going with the help of libuv.
Let me check, is there any code,
I mean this is a much more pure detail,
I'm just trying to want
to introduce it for now.
Is there any code that
we've commanded to run?
Any code that's currently sitting or
running on the cool stack?
Or is there any global code to run?
Those two conditions, if the answer is no,
then start checking the queues.
Ha that's like a Frank Sinatra reference.
Start checking the queues for the-
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: [LAUGH] I like that,
too.
Raise your hand if you got that reference.
A small subset.
Do you want me to sing it?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: Start, [COUGH] Okay.
[LAUGH] Big mistake.
All right, and
this checking of the queues.
Once all global code or
any code we're running is finished
this checking of the queues,
it has a built in feature that does that.
Built by libuv, and it's in the browser
version of JavaScript as well.
But there it's going to the browser.
But we don't have the browser here, so
we had to build it from
scratch again using libuv.
And it's known as what?
>> Speaker 2: Event loop.
>> Will Sentance: The event loop,
the event loop.
It is the node with the help of
the abuse a feature that looks at
what's in the queues sees
what's being awaiting to run.
I'm ready to run I'm ready
to be auto run by node,
check there's no code currently running.
And then grabs from the callback queue,
we're going to see there's a quite
a few queues you get to choose from.
We'll see a few of them
after the next break.
We may even hint at most of them.
There's a total of six cues
that it gets to choose from.
Nice, we're probably only going
to see two or three of them.
Because most of them it don't
just use most of the time.
But for now,
one queue sees what's in there,
it checks the only code that left to run?
No, we've got rid of do on,
we finished running the last time.
And at whatever
would be 2.5 milliseconds cuz we
are ready to run it in 2 milliseconds.
But we're still inside this function here.
And so do a new batch the next running in
for the next batch as it's 4 kilobytes
had to sit waiting, but
at 2.5 milliseconds it goes.
Yes, you finish running to a new batch,
the previous running of it in which you
were running clean tweets all finished.
And so
grab the next running of to a new batch.
And put it on the call stack.
And run do own new batch again.
Create a brand new every
always as a memento.
Awaken ourselves.
Michael was on his phone taking
on a brand new execution contest.
Did we make it.
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Will Sentance: Who made it?
>> Speaker 3: Node.
>> Will Sentance: Node.
Good, there you go.
Execute it, execute it and
we're not going to go into the details.
Its input is the next batch right,
it's the second batch of from the stream.
The next batch is 64 kilobytes
the second one this was the first batch
The 64 kilobytes the first one,
there's the second one.
Clean it, append it to clean tweets and
at the very end,
we would then want a JSON
pass that clean tweets.
Look at this, people.
We're lining this up beautifully.
We're lining this up such that.
We were able to start passing and
working on cleaning tweets as we go.
No longer are we gonna have to wait for
all the data to be finished at once.
Now, we can pass in the data,
start cleaning it, move on.
Pass in the data,
This is Node's favorite feature.
This is the feature that allows
it to start working on things
before it's got all the data in hand.
But to work on it in terms of
it being batches or chunks.
Of data, and
by the way all background features or
most of them technically, not all of them.
Many of them where your
flowing data in and
out are really just batches chunked,
chunkified set of data.
And if you see the HDP one.
Well for a tiny little thing like
a get request, it's just one chunk.
But if it's sending back a bunch of
images, or a movie, or whatever like that,
then it's gonna be sent in chunks out of
the socket, using this model as well.
Okay, and
how do we own a chunk being complete,
get access to it,
using nodes A vent system.
That whenever a chunk gets in
it auto triggers a data event.
We get to work on that data and
continue in the background
bringing in the next chunk.
And when it's done,
work on the next batch.
And by the way you people,
I will say this,
I contrived this so
that it took a little bit longer
to clean the data than it took
to bring in the next batch.
Just so we could see a function
being blocked from running.
So I could introduce to you the fact that
we need to queue up functions to run in
JavaScript.
I wanted to start
introducing that to you now.
Because it will make the final slides,
I think the final slide's coming up.
Yeah, the final slide more accessible,
if we've already been introduced to
the notion that we have to queue stuff up.
Auto run functions have to queue up
before they're allowed to run in node,
a little bit contrived.
I actually reckon that there's no
cleaning function that would take longer
than the time it would take to
get 64 kilobytes of data in.
That's gonna take longer than any
cleaning function, I would suggest.
Which would mean that
actually we would end up,
this is a little bit of a sidebar,
people, it's not too important.
But if you said this is the time,
what was it that we said 15 seconds to
get in all the data and then we were pre.
This is the time to get
all the data in 15 seconds
and then we were,
once the data came in cleaning.
For we said 20 seconds, but
actually reality it would be more like
let's say 10 seconds we were
cleaning it a total of 25 seconds.
If instead we're doing this
where we're importing, cleaning,
simultaneously importing, cleaning,
importing cleaning, then we would finish.
At this point we'd finish importing
all clean that last little batch and
we would be finished in just 15 seconds.